# Unity sample
This sample demonstrates one way to integrate Identity Integration with Unity on mobile platforms. If you never play with Unity Android/iOS, please read [Getting started with Android](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/android-getting-started.html) and [Gettting Started with iOS](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/iphone-GettingStarted.html).

## Overview

In this example, you can learn how to communicate with the IC from C#. As we described in [Internet Identity Integration](../README.md#workflow), the game mainly focuses on:

1. Provide a plugin to handle the communication between C# and the browser.
2. Register the DeepLink URL scheme.
3. Generate the `Ed25519KeyIdentity` in C# and pass the public key to the Web Brower.
4. Receive the `DelegationChain` from the Web Brower and composite the `DelegationIdentity` from it.
5. Use the `DelegationIdentity` to communicate with the backend canister.

## Key Files

There're several important files in this example.

- [AndroidPostBuildProcessor.cs](./Assets/Editor/AndroidPostBuildProcessor.cs)  
  This is a Unity post-build processor for Android platform, which inserts the DeepLink URL scheme into the AndroidManifest.xml.

- [iOSPostBuildProcessor.cs](./Assets/Editor/iOSPostBuildProcessor.cs)  
  This is a Unity post-build processor for iOS platform, which inserts the DeepLink URL scheme into the pList file.

- [DeepLinkPlugin.cs](./Assets/Scripts/DeepLinkPlugin.cs)  
  It's a plugin which provides functions to open the web browser, handle the DeepLink activation, and composite the `DelegationIdentity` from Json string.

- [GreetingClient.cs](./Assets/Scripts/GreetingClient.cs)  
  This provides the C# APIs for calling the Greeting backend canister in [ii_integration_dapp](https://github.com/dfinity/examples/blob/master/native-apps/unity_ii_deeplink/ii_integration_dapp/README.md). It can be generated by running the `ClientGenerator` provided by [ICP.NET](https://github.com/BoomDAO/ICP.NET).

- [TestICPAgent.cs](./Assets/Scripts/TestICPAgent.cs)  
  This is a testing script which calls the APIs provided by [GreetingClient.cs](./Assets/Scripts/GreetingClient.cs) to communicate with the greeting backend canister.

## Deployment

The current Unity project is configured to use the [deployed dapp](https://6x7nu-oaaaa-aaaan-qdaua-cai.icp0.io). If you deploy your own dapp by following [ii_integration_dapp](https://github.com/dfinity/examples/blob/master/native-apps/unity_ii_deeplink/ii_integration_dapp/README.md), you need to make some modifications before you start to build this project to mobile platforms in Unity.

1. In Unity, open the `Assets\Scenes\SampleScene.unity`
2. Navigate to the `AgentAndPlugin` in the scene hierarchy
3. Update the `Greet Backend Canister` with your own greeting backend canister id
4. Update the `Greet Frontend` with your own greeting frontend
5. If you use a different URL scheme to launch your Unity project in [ii_integration_dapp](https://github.com/dfinity/examples/blob/master/native-apps/unity_ii_deeplink/ii_integration_dapp/README.md), please
    - Update the `kAndroidScheme` & `kAndroidHost` in [AndroidPostBuildProcessor.cs](./Assets/Editor/AndroidPostBuildProcessor.cs) accordingly.
    - Or update the `kURLScheme` & `kURLIdentifier` in [iOSPostBuildProcessor.cs](./Assets/Editor/iOSPostBuildProcessor.cs) accordingly.

After updating your Unity project correctly, please build to the platform you want to build to in Unity, just
1. Go to `File -> Build Settings` window
2. Switch to `Android` / `iOS` platform
3. Click `Build` to build the app, or Click `Build And Run` to build and run on the connected device.
