# Unity Android sample
This sample demonstrates one way to integrate Identity Integration with Unity on Android. If you never play with Unity Android, please read [Getting started with Android](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/android-getting-started.html) document.

## Overview

In this example, you can learn how to communicate with the IC from C#. As we described in [Internet Identity Integration](../unity_android_deeplink/README.md#workflow), the game mainly focuses on:

1. Provide an Android Java plugin which can be a bridge between C# and the browser.
2. Register the DeepLink in the Android manifest file.
3. Generate the `Ed25519KeyIdentity` in C# and pass the public key to the Web Brower.
4. Receive the `DelegationIdentity` from the Web Brower and pass it from Java to C#.
5. Use the `DelegationIdentity` to communicate with the backend canister.

## Key Files

There're several important files in this example.

- [ICGameKitPlugin.java](./Assets/Android/Plugins/com/icgamekit/plugin/ICGameKitPlugin.java)  
  This is a Unity Android native plugin written in java, provided with functions including opening browser, sending message back to Unity.

- [AndroidPostBuildProcessor.cs](./Assets/Editor/AndroidPostBuildProcessor.cs)  
  This is a Unity post-build processor for Android platform, which inserts the DeepLink URLScheme into the AndroidManifest.xml.

- [PluginProxy.cs](./Assets/Scripts/PluginProxy.cs)  
  PluginProxy works as a bridge between Unity C# and Android Java, which calls the functions inside [ICGameKitPlugin.java](./Assets/Android/Plugins/com/icgamekit/plugin/ICGameKitPlugin.java).

- [GreetingClient.cs](./Assets/Scripts/GreetingClient.cs)  
  This provides the C# APIs for calling the Greeting backend canister in [ii_integration_page](../ii_integration_page/README.md). It can be generated by running the `ClientGenerator` provided by [ICP.NET](https://github.com/BoomDAO/ICP.NET).

- [TestICPAgent.cs](./Assets/Scripts/TestICPAgent.cs)  
  This is a testing script which can parse the delegation identity and call the APIs provided by [GreetingClient.cs](./Assets/Scripts/GreetingClient.cs) to communicate with the greeting backend canister.

## Deployment

The current Unity project is configured to use the [deployed dapp](https://6x7nu-oaaaa-aaaan-qdaua-cai.icp0.io). If you deploy your own dapp by following [ii_integration_page](../ii_integration_page/README.md), you need to make some modifications before you start to build this project to Android platform in Unity.

1. In Unity, open the `Assets\Scenes\SampleScene.unity`
2. Navigate to the `AgentAndPlugin` in the scene hierarchy
3. Update the `Greet Backend Canister` with your own greeting backend canister id
4. Update the `Greet Frontend` with your own greeting frontend
5. If you use a different URL scheme to launch you Unity project in [ii_integration_page](../ii_integration_page/README.md), please update the `kAndroidScheme` & `kAndroidHost` in [AndroidPostBuildProcessor.cs](./Assets/Editor/AndroidPostBuildProcessor.cs) accordingly.

After updating your Unity project correctly, please build to Android platform in Unity, just 
1. Go to `File -> Build Settings` window
2. Switch to `Android` platform
3. Click `Build` to build the Android apk, or Click `Build And Run` to build and run on the connected device.
