# Unity Android sample
This sample demonstrates one way to integrate Identity Integration with Unity on Android. If you never play with Unity Android, please read [Getting started with Android](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/android-getting-started.html) document.

## Overview

In this example, you can learn how to communicate with the IC from C#. As we described in [Internet Identity Integration](../README.md#workflow), the game mainly focuses on:

1. Provide a plugin to handle the communication between C# and the browser.
2. Register the App Links in the Android manifest file.
3. Generate the `Ed25519KeyIdentity` in C# and pass the public key to the Web Brower.
4. Receive the `DelegationChain` from the Web Brower and composite the `DelegationIdentity` from it.
5. Use the `DelegationIdentity` to communicate with the backend canister.

## Key Files

There're several important files in this example.

- [AndroidPostBuildProcessor.cs](./Assets/Editor/AndroidPostBuildProcessor.cs)  
  This is a Unity post-build processor for Android platform, which inserts the App Links URL scheme into the AndroidManifest.xml.

- [DeepLinkPlugin.cs](./Assets/Scripts/DeepLinkPlugin.cs)  
  It's a plugin which provides functions to open the web browser, handle the App Link activation, and composite the `DelegationIdentity` from Json string.

- [GreetingClient.cs](./Assets/Scripts/GreetingClient.cs)  
  This provides the C# APIs for calling the Greeting backend canister in [ii_integration_dapp](https://github.com/dfinity/examples/blob/master/native-apps/unity_ii_applink/ii_integration_dapp/README.md). It can be generated by running the `ClientGenerator` provided by [ICP.NET](https://github.com/BoomDAO/ICP.NET).

- [TestICPAgent.cs](./Assets/Scripts/TestICPAgent.cs)  
  This is a testing script which can parse the delegation identity and call the APIs provided by [GreetingClient.cs](./Assets/Scripts/GreetingClient.cs) to communicate with the greeting backend canister.

## Deployment

The current Unity project is configured to use the [deployed dapp](https://6x7nu-oaaaa-aaaan-qdaua-cai.icp0.io), its `assetlinks.json` file contains the `SHA256` value from the [test.keystore file](./Assets/test.keystore) (the passwords for the keystore and `ii-test` key are both `unity123456`). If you deploy your own dapp by following [ii_integration_dapp](https://github.com/dfinity/examples/blob/master/native-apps/unity_ii_applink/ii_integration_dapp/README.md), you need to make some modifications before you start to build this project to Android platform in Unity.

1. In Unity, open the `Assets\Scenes\SampleScene.unity`.
2. Navigate to the `AgentAndPlugin` in the scene hierarchy.
3. Update the `Greet Backend Canister` with your own greeting backend canister id.
4. Update the `Greet Frontend` with your own greeting frontend.
5. If you use a different URL scheme to launch your Unity project in [ii_integration_dapp](https://github.com/dfinity/examples/blob/master/native-apps/unity_ii_applink/ii_integration_dapp/README.md), please update the `kAndroidScheme`, `kAndroidHost` and `kURLPath` in [AndroidPostBuildProcessor.cs](./Assets/Editor/AndroidPostBuildProcessor.cs) accordingly.
6. Naviagte to `Editor -> Project Settings -> Android -> Publishing Settings`, choose the keystore file which contains the same `SHA256` value that you use to in your [assetlinks.json file](https://github.com/dfinity/examples/blob/master/native-apps/unity_ii_applink/ii_integration_dapp/src/greet_frontend/assets/.well-known/assetlinks.json).

After updating your Unity project correctly, please build to Android platform in Unity, just
1. Go to `File -> Build Settings` window.
2. Switch to `Android` platform.
3. Click `Build` to build the Android app, or Click `Build And Run` to build and run on the connected device.

## Verification

While installing your app on your Android devices, the Android installer will fetch the [assetlinks.json file](https://github.com/dfinity/examples/blob/master/native-apps/unity_ii_applink/ii_integration_dapp/src/greet_frontend/assets/.well-known/assetlinks.json) from the website and verify the `SHA256` value. But sometimes the verification might fail due to reasons like an unstable network. Once you find the Android App Links doesn't work as you expected, you can run the below [adb command](https://developer.android.com/tools/adb) to retrieve the domain verification status of your apps.

```
adb shell pm get-app-links <your-package-name>
```

The below is the result of running this command against this sample Unity project, with package name `com.dfinity.ii_applink_integration`.

```
PS ..> adb shell pm get-app-links com.dfinity.ii_applink_integration
  com.dfinity.ii_applink_integration:
    ID: 9be82cc2-52ba-4e91-a152-5ba976d6176a
    Signatures: [A3:E2:36:BC:E9:04:3F:8F:A9:C5:9B:B5:FE:89:95:C8:08:BA:35:2D:07:D8:76:13:65:A9:27:D6:33:6B:44:6E]
    Domain verification state:
      6x7nu-oaaaa-aaaan-qdaua-cai.icp0.io: verified
```

The `Domain verification state` of the sample dapp should be `verified` to have Android App Links working properly.
